APPLIED STATISTICS WITH PROGRAMMING
GROUP B
STEPHEN M. MAINA AS263/0836/2019
ANTONY KARANJA AS263/0838/2019
JOAKIM MWANGI  AS263/0842/2019
FESTO OKOTH ODUNGA AS263/0878/2019
ANN KARIMI AS261/0840/2019
CAROLINE NJOKI AS263/0848/2019
MBAU CALEB NJOROGE AS263/1601/2019
EFFECTS OF HIV ON EDUCATION 
NEGATIVE IMPACTS
LOSS OF PARENTAL LOVE
This occurs when HIV positive parents succumb. They leave behind vulnerable children who in most cases lack parental love and guidance. This ends up having a negative impact on the children’s education. They lack crucial educational guidance which is necessary for any child.
SELF PERCEPTION
This is the tendency of hating one self. It is brought about by the lowering of one’s self-esteem. If the victim is stigmatised, it becomes even worse. Self-perception leads to poor performance in class and hence the education of the victim is greatly affected.   
THE RESOURCES AVAILABLE TO SUPPORT EDUCATION ARE DIVERTED TO MEET HIV NEEDS
In order to pursue education effectively, pupils require school fees, educational materials like books and uniform. They also need basic needs. It is found that most pupils dropped out of school because of family poverty and inability to locate funds necessary for books, uniform and school fees. This is because the resources available are used to cater for HIV needs. This eventually leads to poor performance in class and increased number of school dropout.




RELATIONSHIPS
HIV and AIDS has affected relationships at family level and also socially. In schools for example, it affects relationships among pupils which in most cases results to stigmatisation. Moreover, it also affects teacher-student relationship. If the teacher is HIV positive, the students may minimise their interaction with the said teacher hence affecting the learning process.

INTERUTION OF TEACHING PROGRAMS DUE TO ILLNESS
This results from teachers absenting from school to visit the hospital for check-ups, this in return interrupts the leaning program. Eventually, there is reduced quality of education.
ATTRITION OF TEACHERS
Attrition is the process of reducing somethings strength or effectiveness. Teachers are more concerned about their health and become nervous and depressed, they are frequently failing to attend classes and their attitude to work deteriorates hence they become unable to perform well. This result to lack of learning in appropriate time and lack of teaching. The sick teachers and student lack to attend lessons to attend medical treatment or because of general weakness due to ill-health. This frequent absenteeism reduces interest in education in terms of viewing that even if the affected student gets the education knowledge it would be of no help to them due to their illness.
LESS OF TRAINED AND EXPERINCED TEACHERS
A teacher is the only person a learner can turn to for help. They also hold regular informative meetings for parents and  core givers about how to reduce the vulnerability of children to HIV/AIDS. Due to this, the government need to administer treatment to avoid frequent illness thereby minimising the rate of death of in a more providence of treatment.
HIV/AIDS affects the content of education because of 
the need to incorporate HIV/AIDS education into the curriculum, with a view to imparting the knowledge, attitudes and skills that may help to promote safer sexual behaviour;
the need to develop life-skills which equip pupils for positive social behaviour and for coping with negative social pressures;
the need for earlier inclusion in the curriculum of work-related training and skills, so as to prepare those compelled to leave school early (because of orphan hood or other reasons) to care for themselves, their siblings, their families.


HIV/AIDS affects the organisation of schools because of the need to
 • adopt a flexible timetable or calendar that will be more responsive to the income generating burdens that many pupils must shoulder;
 • provide for schools that are closer to children's homes; 
• provide for orphans and children from infected families, for whom normal school attendance is impossible, by bringing the school out to them instead of requiring them to come in to some central location;
 • examine assumptions about schooling, such as the age at which children should commence, the desirability of making boarding provision for girls, the advisability of bringing together large numbers of young people in relatively high-risk circumstances.  
The problems experienced by orphans in attending normal schools have given a strong impetus to the development of community schools, which operate on a more flexible timetable and which can be more accommodating to the special needs of orphans, street children and those whom AIDS-related causes have induced to abandon the normal school system.
HIV/AIDS affects donor support for education because of 
• donors' concern to promote capacity-building and develop a self-sustaining system, both of which are inhibited by the widespread incidence of HIV/AIDS; 
• donors' concern lest the effectiveness of their inputs be undermined by the impacts of the epidemic;
 • donor uncertainty about supporting extended training abroad for persons from heavily infected countries.

POSITIVE IMPACTS
DEVOLOPMENT
HIV and AIDS has led to development of training institutions such as the ministry of education. Science and technology are involved in educating the youth. This increases the awareness and education of the public at large.  




PROMOTES BEHAVIOUR CHANGE
Kenya is among the countries with highest rate of HIV prevalence in the world and AIDS has now reached crisis proportions in the country. Among the initiatives implemented as a response, to promote sexual behaviour change, is the Peer Education HIV/AIDS Prevention Program (PEHAPP) at the workplace. This paper assesses the impact and outcome of the PEHAPP. It concludes that the PEHAPP is having a measurable positive impact in the key areas of improving knowledge, attitudes, and practices related to risky sexual behaviour which, in turn, should reduce the incidence of transmission of HIV/AIDS and other STDs over the long-term.
CREATION OF EMPLOYMENT
Many people who have studied HIV have been employed in the education sector. Most probably teachers , lecturers clinical officers who have specialized have been employed thus benefiting from it. Also, some specialists who are doing research on HIV are also benefiting through employment and providing many vacancies for employing other colleagues thus increasing chances of job opportunities. 
REDUCES STIGMATISATION 
Stigma is among the foremost barrier to HIV prevention, treatment, care and support. It makes people fear to seek HIV information services and modalities to reduce risks of infections and adopt safer behaviours lest this actions raise suspicion about their HIV status. It also prevent them from disclosing their status even to family member and sexual partners and undermine their ability and willingness to access and adhere to treatment thus weakening individual and communities to protect themselves from HIV and stay healthy if they are positive.  By acquiring HIV education, the infected people are able to cope this stigmatisation and seek medical treatment.
CREATION OF AWARENESS ON HIV
In creation of awareness in the education sector, there are departments such as guidance and counselling where students who are both infected or affected go and get guidance which helps them to understand and accept themselves in their current situation. The councillors are employed by the school.


